Import JWKS from URL on JWT policy (#3347)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: examples/custom-resources/jwks/README.md

# JWKS

> In this example we deploy a web application, configure load balancing for it via a VirtualServer, and apply a JWT policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example we deploy a web application, configure load balancing with a VirtualServer, and apply a JWT policy.
```

> Instead of using a local secret to verify the client request like we do in our [jwt](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/custom-resources/jwt) example, we will define an external Identity Provider (IdP) using the `JwksURI` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of using a local secret to verify the client request such as in the [jwt](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/custom-resources/jwt) example, we will define an external Identity Provider (IdP) using the `JwksURI` field.
```

```
$ kubectl apply -f tls-secret.yaml
```

## Step 2 - Deploy a Web Application

Create the application deployment and service:
```
$ kubectl apply -f webapp.yaml
```

## Step 3 - Deploy Keycloak

1. Create the Keycloak deployment and service:
    ```
    $ kubectl apply -f keycloak.yaml
    ```
1. Create a VirtualServer resource for Keycloak:
    ```
    $ kubectl apply -f virtual-server-idp.yaml
    ```

## Step 4 - Configure Keycloak

To set up Keycloak:
1. To connect to Keycloak, use `https://keycloak.example.com`.

2. Create a new Realm. We will use `jwks-example` for this example. This can be done by selecting the dropdown menu on the left and selecting Create Realm

3. Create a new Client called `jwks-client`. This can be done by selecting the Clients tab on the left and then selecting Create client.
   - When creating the Client, ensure both Client authentication and Authorization are enabled.

4. Once the client is created, navigate to the Credentials tab for that client and copy the Client secret.
   - This can be saved in the `SECRET` shell variable for later:
      ```
      export SECRET=<client secret>
      ```

> 5. Create a new User called `jwks-user`. This can be done by selecting the Users tab on the left and then selecting Create client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Create a new User called `jwks-user` by selecting the Users tab on the left and then selecting Create client.
```

6. Once the user is created, navigate to the Credentials tab for that user and select Set password. For this example the password can be whatever you want.
   - This can be saved in the `CREDENTIAL` shell variable for later:
     ```
     export CREDENTIAL=<user credentials>
     ```

## Step 5 - Deploy the JWT Policy

> 1. Create a policy with the name `jwt-policy` and configure the `JwksURI` field to that only permits requests to our web application that contain a valid JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a policy with the name `jwt-policy` and configure the `JwksURI` field so that it only permits requests to our web application that contain a valid JWT.
```

> In the example policy below, replace `<your_realm>` with the realm created in Step 4. In this case we used `jwks-example` as our realm name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example policy below, replace `<your_realm>` with the realm created in Step 4. We used `jwks-example` as our realm name.
```

NOTE: the value of `spec.jwt.token` is set to `$http_token` in this example as we are sending the client token in an HTTP header.
```
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1
kind: Policy
metadata:
  name: jwt-policy
spec:
  jwt:
    realm: MyProductAPI
    token: $http_token
    jwksURI: https://keycloak.example.com/realms/<your_realm>/protocol/openid-connect/certs
    keyCache: 1h
```

2. Deploy the policy:
```
$ kubectl apply -f jwks.yaml
```

## Step 6 - Deploy a config map with a resolver

> If the value of `jwksURI` uses a hostname, the Ingress Controller will need a reference a resolver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the value of `jwksURI` uses a hostname, the Ingress Controller will need to reference a resolver.
```

This can be done by deploying a ConfigMap with the `resolver-addresses` data field
```
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: nginx-config
  namespace: nginx-ingress
data:
  resolver-addresses: <resolver-ip>
```

## Step 7 - Configure Load Balancing

Create a VirtualServer resource for the web application:
```
$ kubectl apply -f virtual-server.yaml
```

Note that the VirtualServer references the policy `jwt-policy` created in Step 5.

## Step 8 - Get the client token

> In order for the client to have permission to send requests to the web application they must send a Bearer token to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the client to have permission to send requests to the web application they must send a Bearer token to the application.
```

To get this token, run the following `curl` command:
```
$ export TOKEN=$(curl -k -L -X POST 'https://keycloak.example.com/realms/jwks-example/protocol/openid-connect/token' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
--data-urlencode grant_type=password \
--data-urlencode scope=openid \
--data-urlencode client_id=jwks-client \
--data-urlencode client_secret=$SECRET \
--data-urlencode username=jwks-user \
--data-urlencode password=$CREDENTIAL \
| jq -r .access_token)
```

This command will save the token in the `TOKEN` shell variable.

## Step 9 - Test the Configuration

If you attempt to access the application without providing the bearer token, NGINX will reject your requests for that VirtualServer:
```
$ curl -H 'Accept: application/json' webapp.example.com
<html>
<head><title>401 Authorization Required</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>401 Authorization Required</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx/1.23.2</center>
</body>
</html>
```

> If a valid bearer token is provided, request will succeed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a valid bearer token is provided, the request will succeed:
```

# JWKS

In this example we deploy a web application, configure load balancing with a VirtualServer, and apply a JWT policy.
Instead of using a local secret to verify the client request such as in the [jwt](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/custom-resources/jwt) example, we will define an external Identity Provider (IdP) using the `JwksURI` field.

We will be using a deployment of [KeyCloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) to work as our IdP in this example.

> 

Reviewer 2: Please add the following.

"In this example, we will be deploying Keycloak as a single container for example purposes and exposing it with Ingress controller."

We want customers understand to have a good grasp on this example setup (Keycloak and NIC)

# JWKS

In this example we deploy a web application, configure load balancing with a VirtualServer, and apply a JWT policy.
Instead of using a local secret to verify the client request such as in the [jwt](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/custom-resources/jwt) example, we will define an external Identity Provider (IdP) using the `JwksURI` field.

We will be using a deployment of [KeyCloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) to work as our IdP in this example.

> In this example, KeyCloak is deployed as a single container for the purpose of exposing it with an Ingress controller.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, KeyCloak is deployed as a single container for the purpose of exposing it with an Ingress Controller.
```

> We will be using a deployment of [KeyCloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) to work as our IdP in this example.
> In this example, KeyCloak is deployed as a single container for the purpose of exposing it with an Ingress Controller.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We will be using a deployment of [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) to work as our IdP in this example.
In this example, Keycloak is deployed as a single container for the purpose of exposing it with an Ingress Controller.
```

NOTE: When setting the value of `jwksURI` in Step 5, the response will differ depending on the IDP used. In some cases the response will be too large for NGINX to properly handle.
If this occurs you will need to configure the [subrequest_output_buffer_size](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#subrequest_output_buffer_size) directive in the http context.
This can currently be done using `http-snippets`. Please refer to our document on [snippets and custom templates](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/configmap-resource/#snippets-and-custom-templates) for details on how to configure this directive.

The code block below is an example of the updated configmap which adds `subrequest_output_buffer_size` under the http context in the nginx.conf.

> NOTE: The value of `subrequest_output_buffer_size` is only an example value and should be changed to suite your environment.

Reviewer 4: I don't want this to be IDP specific. It is possible that other IDPs will trigger the same error.
